OSDOCS-18273-CLEAN: Integrated reviewer feedback into clean version (#111454)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/proc-odc-creating-helm-release-from-url.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:

// applications/working_with_helm_charts/odc-working-with-helm-releases.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="odc-creating-helm-release-from-url_{context}"]
= Installing a Helm release from a URL

[role="_abstract"]

> A Helm release is a deployed instance of a Helm chart within your {product-title} cluster. You can install charts from the developer catalog or by using a direct chart URL. Using a direct URL avoids the need for a configured Helm repository. However, this method circumvents the validation provided by the developer catalog. Use the direct URL method only when a chart is not available from the developer catalog or configured repositories.

Reviewer: @rnapoles-rh requested (ref. https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/109348#issuecomment-4388226262) a security warning about installing charts from arbitrary URLs.  I don't see where that was added below this...perhaps it would be good to insert it toward the end of this paragraph?

// Module included in the following assemblies:

// applications/working_with_helm_charts/odc-working-with-helm-releases.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="odc-creating-helm-release-from-url_{context}"]
= Installing a Helm release from a URL

[role="_abstract"]
A Helm release is a deployed instance of a Helm chart within your {product-title} cluster. You can install charts from the developer catalog or by using a direct chart URL. Using a direct URL avoids the need for a configured Helm repository. However, this method circumvents the validation provided by the developer catalog. Use the direct URL method only when a chart is not available from the developer catalog or configured repositories.

[WARNING]
====

> Installing a Helm chart from a direct URL bypasses the validation checks provided by the developer catalog. Install charts only from URLs you trust, because unverified charts can introduce security risks to your cluster. When possible, use charts from the developer catalog or a configured Helm repository instead.

Reviewer: I'm OK with this, but I just want to confirm that we want to say "this method circumvents the validation provided by the developer catalog" at line 10 given that we're also saying it at line 14.

Author: Hi @webbnh 

Yes, intentional. The intro frames the trade-off for users deciding which method to use, while the WARNING reinforces the security risk for anyone who skims past the intro. Both serve different purposes, so I'd like to keep both.

> Installing a Helm chart from a direct URL bypasses the validation checks provided by the developer catalog. Install charts only from URLs you trust, because unverified charts can introduce security risks to your cluster. When possible, use charts from the developer catalog or a configured Helm repository instead.

Reviewer 2: If this warning is in the main docs, I don't know why it was placed in a RN as well. You can simply xref to it.

Reviewer: It was requested by QE.

I think their expectation is that, while users might read the RN, having found this feature they might use it without bothering to first read the docs, in which case they wouldn't see the warning there.

Author: is that ok, @JoeAldinger ?

Reviewer 2: This was just a question/suggestion not a deal breaker for merge.

====

.Prerequisites

> * You've logged in to the {product-title} web console.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* You have logged in to the {product-title} web console.
```

Author: contractions are allowed and i prefer them. way less stilted. i'm aware of the conditions for their use and the differences between RH's guidance and IBM's. it's a writing hill i'll die on. thank you, @JoeAldinger!

<img width="900" height="252" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6fcd5d1e-65a9-48b5-879c-3ffc411291a4" />

<img width="1333" height="519" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/cd73abde-5800-4e0d-aef1-1a8216b9ff7c" />

Reviewer 2: Ok, again not a deal breaker just a suggestion to provide better parallelism. This is not a hill I'll die on 😄

* You have the necessary project permissions to install a Helm chart.
* You have a URL for a Helm chart.

.Procedure
. In the {product-title} web console, select **Ecosystem > Helm** from the navigation menu. The **Helm** view opens.
. In the **Project** drop-down menu, select the project where you want to install the Helm release; for example, **default**.
. From the **Helm Releases** tab, click **Create**.
. Select **Helm chart URL**. The **Install Helm chart from URL** view opens.
. In the **Chart URL** field, enter the URL for the Helm chart you want to install.
+
NOTE: For Helm charts stored in an OCI-compliant registry, the URL must use the `oci://` protocol; for example, `oci://quay.io/organization/repository/chart-name`.
+
. In the **Release name** field, enter a name for the Helm release you want to install.
. In the **Chart version** field, enter the chart version number if it is not detected automatically.
. Click **Next**. The **Configure Helm release** view opens.

> * Review the configuration. Make sure that the chart URL, release name, and chart version are correct.

Reviewer 2: I couldn't tell if these were literals or UI: chart URL, release name, and chart version.

Author: good call. @webbnh are those 3 UI fields where users can input text or are they just info on a screen?

Reviewer: @JoeAldinger, those are referring to the field labels/titles in the UI.

Can you suggest what to change in order to make that clear?
